[Music]
[Applause]
more than 15 metres long and weighing
about 45 tons this is the most powerful
marine reptile ever discovered
[Music]
twice as big as most Jurassic ocean
predators this is predator X an animal
that must go down in history as one of
the oceans most deadly hunters
[Music]
and its prey like Camarasaurus that are
in its sights
[Music]
skull analysis of giant killers like
Predator X suggests that they hunted
their prey by smell channeling water
through special internal nostrils
allowing them to silently hone in on
their target
[Music]
by analyzing their Anatomy we've
calculated the predator X could move up
to 5 m/s fractionally faster than the
cameras horas
[Music]
the camera soars only defense is to head
for the refuge of shallow water
[Music]
this time predator X's size works
against him unable to hunt efficiently
in shallow water means that the
Camarasaurus can use this as a refuge
[Music]
Spinosaurus is a predator but one that
hunts in water it's xef agus a fish
eater
this is uncle priestess an 8 metre long
giant saw fish similar to those alive
today the so like rostrum is lined with
lethal Barb's and is in itself up to two
and a half metres in length
it's thought they migrated into
freshwater rivers to breed where the
young may be safer but the adults are
exposed to new threats
[Music]
with their breeding season at its height
these rivers are filled with anka
priestess
it's the perfect hunting opportunity for
Spinosaurus
[Music]
Spinosaurus is conical teeth evolved to
grip prey rather than tear off flesh for
that it needs powerful arms and claws
[Music]
we've pre plentiful spinosaurus can
afford to be wasteful fact which other
dinosaurs take full advantage of Bru
gulps an 8 meter carnivore
anywhere else it might dominate but here
it is dwarfed by Spinosaurus
Spinosaurus is unique with long narrow
jaws and nostrils set high on its head
its teeth was straight and conical they
gave us a clue as to how it killed
more evidence came in 2008 when
spinosaurus skull was put through a CT
scanner it revealed a curious pattern of
holes and sinuses in the snout that
looked just like those of crocodiles
it's thought these contain pressure
sensors sensors that like a crocodile
can detect prey making it perfectly
adapted to hunting in water this
discovery gives us our best evidence of
exactly how it hunted
able to hold its snout in the water
because of its high nostrils they can
strike without even seeing its prey
[Music]
this was a feathered dinosaur but these
feathers aren't for keeping warm or for
show their structure is plainly visible
from the fossils they are very long
veined and most importantly their shape
creates a perfect aerodynamic surface
and they aren't confined to its forearms
its legs to had long feathers these
feathers are designed for one thing only
flight
Microraptor is a four wing dinosaur that
took to the skies
[Music]
[Applause]
but in these Chinese forests
Microraptor isn't the only flying on
staff
[Music]
sign orifice orders closely related and
larger
[Music]
more than capable of stealing prey
but it has larger prey in mind
[Music]
[Applause]
Microraptor is now the hunted
[Music]
both can fly
but this isn't powered flight it's
blinding
recent research has revealed how
Microraptor flu they didn't have the
muscles for powered flight so instead it
made the most of its four wings by
holding its rear legs back and to the
sides it was able to become an
incredibly efficient glider moving
through the forest in a series of long
looping glides
[Music]
having longer flight feathers on both
its arms and legs
Microraptor is by far the better glider
[Music]
but with no ability to gain height the
only way is down
[Music]
and once on the ground the long feathers
turned from an advantage into weakness
Microraptor is barely able to walk much
less run
st. Olaf thesaurus has no such problem
on the forest floor the tables are
turned
on its own even it is not a match for a
fully grown Argentinosaurus
[Music]
but this giant killer is not alone
for years it was thought that an adult
Argentinosaurus would be too big for any
predator to tackle but in 2006 a new
discovery suddenly made even the biggest
dinosaurs a lot more vulnerable as they
dug into the Argentinian dirt they
didn't just find one predator buried
here the skeletons of at least seven
mapusaurus of different ages and sizes
were found together it suggested that
this was a group a Giant Killer that
appears to hunt in gangs
and more than capable of taking on the
very biggest dinosaurs
[Music]
not even a fully grown Argentinosaurus
is safe from this group the best defense
is their sheer size
[Music]
Matros horas is teeth are perfectly
designed like blades to slice off chunks
of flesh
with prey so large a single bite isn't
always faking it appears mapusaurus
could just snack feeding from its victim
without actually killing it
[Music]
the victim surviving to provide more
food at a later date
[Music]
but even in a group these giant killers
are never far away from danger
attacking an animal more than ten times
your weight carries grave risks
[Music]
a carcass will attract every big
predator for miles around a Mayo
majungasaurus attracted to the feast it
is more than capable challenging for the
carcass
[Music]
[Applause]
majungasaurus has short arms and can't
grasp
like Tyrannosaurus it's all about the
bite
the shape of majungasaurus skull and
teeth suggests a very different biting
style to the flesh tearing dinosaurs
with a broad short and muscular skull it
was a dino better adapted to biting and
gripping rather than slashing its prey
this fight is about more than just
winning the feeding rights to a carcass
[Music]
when the bite marks on the mold when
jeonga soros remains was studied more
closely the marks on the bones were
found to match the only large carnivore
in the region there is no bigger killer
in these lands and majungasaurus this is
the first imputable evidence of dinosaur
cannibalism it might seem shocking but
it's a behavior that clearly shows the
most successful killers will exploit any
situation to their maximum advantage